Document problems (#448)
Shopify/identity_cache: PROBLEMS.md

While IdentityCache allows to massively scale access to ActiveRecord objects, it's important to note what problems might arise with it over time and what are things that it's not solving in the current design.

## Large blobs

> For [god objects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/God_object) (like the Shop model at Shopify), it’s typical to have many associations. It’s for developers appealing to embed many of those associations into the god model’s IDC blob with `cache_has_many :images, embed: true`. As a side effect, over time the god model’s IDC blob may grow over the top. It gets even worse when some of the embedded records get larger, and the total IDC blob gets into as much as a megabyte in size. This puts pressure on both the application and memcached, because the blob needs to be serialized and unserialized each time and transferred over the network.

Reviewer: Don't forget the fact that if the cache blob gets larger than the maximum cache value in memcached, then the cache fill could fail, causing it to have to load all that data from the database each time.

> ## Overfetching

Reviewer: Is this really a separate issue?  It seems like another issue that comes from embedded associations.

Another possible issue that can come from embedded associations is that cache invalidations for a model can be amplified by the number of models that embed them.  This can further aggravate the large cache blob problem by embedding an association that gets invalidated more frequently.

> For those fat (and possibley god) objects, every `Model.fetch` would result in fetching all of the blob over the network and unserializing all embedded records, even if the client has only accessed one field. That's a lot of useless CPU cycles and IO operations that happen on each access.

Reviewer: It will also increase the network and memory bandwidth used on both the client and the server.

## Hot keys

> This is not necessarily the IDC problem, but it is a problem with memcache and the way how IDC uses it. To scale out memcache, it’s typical to arrange memcached instances in rings. Once a memcache operation comes in, [consistent hashing](https://github.com/facebook/mcrouter/wiki/Pools#hash-functions) is used to route the operation to one of the rings. So a key that maps for the same IDC entry will always end in the same memcached instance.

Reviewer: > This is not necessarily the IDC problem, but it is a problem with memcache and the way how IDC uses it.

How is it not an IDC problem if it is a problem with the way IDC uses memcached?

> If that key associated with a record becomes busy and hot, that memcached instance will become saturated on the network and the number of bytes that it can send out. In cloud environments, it’s a limit that is easy to hit.

Reviewer: You could say this aggravates the server-side large blob problem.

> ## Thundering herd

Reviewer: This one seems like it is more clearly just an issue that needs fixing.  We even have a pull request with a possible fix (https://github.com/Shopify/identity_cache/pull/373)

When a record gets updated, its IDC entry in memcache is deleted to get populated on the next time it gets accessed.

> When a bunch of clients request the same thing, find out that IDC entry is missing, they will all go to the database to fill the IDC key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When many clients request the same key concurrently (e.g. a very hot codepath), they all find out that the IDC entry is missing at the same, and hence they will all go to the database to fill the IDC key at the same time.
```

> That massive number of clients hitting the DB will create the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem) and massively overload the DB. And at the end, only one of those clients will be the first in that race and fill the cache with the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The massive number of clients hitting the DB will create a [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem) and overload the DB. And at the end, only one of those clients will be the first in that race and fill the cache with the data.
```
